#41 Nuke Integration (#46)
Inbibo/shift_docs: docs/integration_resources/software/nuke.md

Shift provides a `nshift` utility script to properly bind the Shift UI to Nuke. In order to run and open Shift in Nuke, execute the following code block inside the Nuke *Python Script Editor*:

<pre><code style="white-space: pre; margin: 20px 0; padding: 10px; box-sizing: border-box;">import sys
sys.path.append("&ltpath_to_the_shift_installation_folder&gt")
sys.path.append("&ltpath_to_the_shift_installation_folder&gt/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

from shift.tools import nshift
nshift.show()
</code></pre>

## Shift installation in Nuke

To install Shift and open it through a *menu.py* entry within Nuke, it is required to set up Shift in the user *init.py* and **menu.py*.py* Python files from Nuke. Shift can be added to the user *init.py* and *menu.py* files from Nuke's preference folder (*<home directory>/.nuke*) or to a custom *init.py* and *menu.py* files inside a custom folder structure. If the directory where these files are stored is a path sourced by Nuke, they will be automatically executed on startup.

### Init File

> In the *init.py* file is required to configure the requirements for Shift to work in Nuke batch and interactive modes. For that purpose is only required to add the Shift installation path to the **PATH** environment variable. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the *init.py* file, it is necessary to configure the requirements for Shift to work in Nuke batch and interactive modes. To achieve this, it is only required to add the Shift installation path to the **PATH** environment variable.

```

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>")

> sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

Author: done

from shift.tools import nshift
nshift.show()

> ```

Reviewer: Update to use code block formatting 
https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/issues/60#issuecomment-2326086193

## Shift installation in Nuke

To install Shift and open the Shift UI with a menu entry within Nuke, it is required to set up Shift in the user init and menu Python files from Nuke. Shift can be added to the user init and menu files from Nuke's preference folder (*<home directory>/.nuke*) or to a custom init and menu files inside a custom folder structure. If the directory where these files are stored is a path read by Nuke, they will be automatically executed on startup.

### Init

In the init.py file is required to configure the Shift basics to work in Nuke batch and interface modes. For that purpose is only required to add the Shift installation path to the environment variables. 

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>")
sys.path.append("<path_to_the_shift_installation_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")

> ```

Reviewer: Update to use code block formatting 
https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/issues/60#issuecomment-2326086193

>[!NOTE]
> If the paths are added in the system or before opening Nuke, then this configuration step will not be required.

### Menu

In the menu.py file it is required to configure the Shift menu and toolbar entries in the Nuke UI.

```python
import os
import nuke

try:
    import shift
    shiftPath = os.path.dirname(shift.__file__)  # Get the directory location of Shift
    # Build the path to the shift_icon for the toolbar
    iconPath = os.path.join(shiftPath, "icons", "shift_icon_window.png")
    shiftCode = "from shift.tools import nshift;nshift.show()"
    # Create the toolbar entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nodes")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift", icon=iconPath)
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
    # Create a Menu entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nuke")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift")
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
except Exception as e:
    pass  # Skip the Error raise to avoid Nuke failing at opening if setting up the menu does not work on startup.

> ```

Reviewer: Update to use code block formatting 
https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/issues/60#issuecomment-2326086193

> This code placed in a menu.py file executed by Nuke will create a Shift toolbar entry.
> 
> 
> 
> <figure>
>       <img src="images/nuke_shift_toolbar.png" alt="Shift Toolbar">
>       <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift Menu entry in the Nuke Nodes Toolbar.</figcaption>
> </figure>
> 
> and a Shift menu entry
> 
> <figure>
>       <img src="images/nuke_shift_menu.png" alt="Shift Menu">
>       <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu on Nuke's top menu bar.</figcaption>
> </figure>
> 
> when Nuke is initialized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code, placed in a menu.py file and executed by Nuke, will create a Shift toolbar entry (Figure 1) and a Shift menu entry (Figure 2) when Nuke is initialized.

<figure>
      <img src="images/nuke_shift_toolbar.png" alt="Shift Toolbar">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift Menu entry in the Nuke Nodes Toolbar.</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
      <img src="images/nuke_shift_menu.png" alt="Shift Menu">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu on Nuke's top menu bar.</figcaption>
</figure>

```

nshift.show()
```

## Shift installation in Nuke

> In order to have Shift installed inside Nuke and be able to open the Shift UI with a menu entry, is required to setup Shift in the user init and menu python files. It can be added in the user init and menu files from the nuke preference folder ([home directory]/.nuke) or a custom init and menu files inside the pipeline. If the directory were this files are stored is a path read by Nuke, they will be automatically executed on startup.

Author: done

### Init

In the init.py file is required to configure the Shift basics to work in Nuke batch and interface modes. For that purpose is only required to add the Shift installation path to the environment variables. 

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_your_shift_folder>")
sys.path.append("<path_to_your_shift_folder>/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")
```

>[!NOTE]
> If the paths are added in the system or before open Nuke, then this configuration step won't be required.

### Menu

> In the menu.py file is required to configure the Shift menu and toolbar entries in the Nuke UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the menu.py file it is required to configure the Shift menu and toolbar entries in the Nuke UI.

```

```python
import os
import nuke

try:
    import shift
    shiftPath = os.path.dirname(shift.__file__)  # Get the directory location of Shift
    # Build the path to the shift_icon for the toolbar
    iconPath = os.path.join(shiftPath, "icons", "shift_icon_window.png")
    shiftCode = "from shift.tools import nshift;nshift.show()"
    # Create the toolbar entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nodes")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift", icon=iconPath)
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
    # Create a Menu entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nuke")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift")
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
except Exception as e:

>     pass  # Skip the Error raise to avoid Nuke fail at opening if something does not work on startup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    pass  # Skip the Error raise to avoid Nuke faililg at opening if setting up the menu does not work on startup.
```

```

> This code placed in a menu.py executed by Nuke will create a Shif toolbar entry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This code placed in a menu.py file executed by Nuke will create a Shift toolbar entry

```

nshift.show()
```

## Shift installation in Nuke

> In order to have Shift installed inside Nuke and be able to open the Shift UI with a menu entry, is required to setup Shift in the user init and menu python files. It can be added in the user init and menu files from the nuke preference folder ([home directory]/.nuke) or a custom init and menu files inside your pipeline. If the directory were this files are stored is a path read by Nuke, they will be automatically executed on startup.

Reviewer: I don't fully get the second sentence:
" It can be added in the user init and menu files from the nuke preference folder ([home directory]/.nuke) or a custom init and menu files inside your pipeline."

With "It" you mean "Shift"? And with "added" you mean "imported"? And pipeline you mean in a different directory with a personal folder structure?

I left a suggestion, but feel free to rephrase it if needed:
```suggestion
To install Shift and open the Shift UI with a menu entry within Nuke, it is required to set up Shift in the user init and menu Python files from Nuke. Shift can be added to the user init and menu files from Nuke's preference folder (*<home directory>/.nuke*) or to a custom init and menu files inside a custom folder structure. If the directory where these files are stored is a path read by Nuke, they will be automatically executed on startup.

```

Author: Nuke automatically execute the init.py and menu.py that it found in the folders added to the Nuke_Path if I remember correctly.

The TDs usually have a main init and menu files where they configure the whole startup. Yes, with it I mean Shift, we can replace it. So what I mean with added is like another tool to be added/imported to Nuke. 

I will commit your suggestion

```python
import sys
sys.path.append("<path_to_your_shift_folder>")
sys.path.append("<path_to_your_shift_folder>/shift/thirdparty/python/Lib/site-packages")
```

>[!NOTE]
> If the paths are added in the system or before opening Nuke, then this configuration step will not be required.

### Menu

In the menu.py file it is required to configure the Shift menu and toolbar entries in the Nuke UI.

```python
import os
import nuke

try:
    import shift
    shiftPath = os.path.dirname(shift.__file__)  # Get the directory location of Shift
    # Build the path to the shift_icon for the toolbar
    iconPath = os.path.join(shiftPath, "icons", "shift_icon_window.png")
    shiftCode = "from shift.tools import nshift;nshift.show()"
    # Create the toolbar entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nodes")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift", icon=iconPath)
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
    # Create a Menu entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nuke")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift")
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
except Exception as e:
    pass  # Skip the Error raise to avoid Nuke failing at opening if setting up the menu does not work on startup.
```

> This code placed in a menu.py file executed by Nuke will create a Shift toolbar entry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code placed in a menu.py file executed by Nuke will create a Shift toolbar entry.

```

![Shift Toolbar](../../images/nuke/shift_toolbar.png)

> 

Reviewer: Please, check how to add the html code from this card and apply it to this image: https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/issues/45

Ensure it renders properly on the webpage.

Author: done, it's the caption named in the right way? If not let me know.

Reviewer: I would try to be a bit more descriptive in the figure caption.

Author: done, let me know if now it's ok

and a Shift menu entry

> ![Shift Menu](../../images/nuke/shift_menu.png)

Reviewer: Please, check how to add the html code from this card and apply it to this image: https://github.com/Inbibo/shift_docs/issues/45

Ensure it renders properly on the webpage.

Author: I have a problem with the images. I think I have setup them like in the Issue. However they display ok in github but not in the webpage. Do you see something wrong @juliavisserinbibo ?

Reviewer: I do see them
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/643f2dec-f70c-4e52-b538-22336dd00867)

Author: Ok, maybe When I tryied it was cached in the web or something. Thx!

Reviewer: To make sure you are looking at the latest changes I suggest looking at the file that is displayed in "Files change" since it corresponds to the file status in the latest commit. 
Because the path is unique to the commit and the link will be different, there will not be cache problems.
![inspectweb](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5f943edd-8640-4da6-9ea9-1df3746291bc)

Author: well, I checked again and still does not display
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f74ffcb7-49e3-4677-bf4e-49d03ba88d5f)
really weird

Reviewer: @Inbibo/shift can someone else try it out and see what the result is?

Reviewer 3: On my side it's working fine too:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/567d8f60-d0da-475f-8081-a7f5576626c4)

when Nuke is initialized.

## Python Interpreter Setup

> In Shift it is possible to launch the execution of a workflow via an application's Python interpreter with the [WorkflowProcess](../reference/nodes/workflow/#workflowProcess-node) node. To achieve this for Nuke, set path to its Python interpreter the following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Shift it is possible to launch the execution of a workflow via an application's Python interpreter with the [WorkflowProcess](../reference/nodes/workflow#workflowProcess-node) node. To achieve this for Nuke, set path to its Python interpreter the following environment variables:

```

**SHIFT_PROCESS_NUKE** : path to Nuke's Python interpreter (python)

> You can set this environment variable in any environment to be able to execute Shift Workflows in Nuke even if Shift in running in Standalone or a different Software environment.

Reviewer: Make it impersonal, meaning that the pronoun `You` can't be used.

Author: done

```

>[!NOTE]
> If the paths are added in the system or before opening Nuke, then this configuration step will not be required.

### Menu

In the menu.py file it is required to configure the Shift menu and toolbar entries in the Nuke UI.

```python
import os
import nuke

try:
    import shift
    shiftPath = os.path.dirname(shift.__file__)  # Get the directory location of Shift
    # Build the path to the shift_icon for the toolbar
    iconPath = os.path.join(shiftPath, "icons", "shift_icon_window.png")
    shiftCode = "from shift.tools import nshift;nshift.show()"
    # Create the toolbar entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nodes")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift", icon=iconPath)
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
    # Create a Menu entry
    menubar = nuke.menu("Nuke")
    shiftM = menubar.addMenu("Shift")
    shiftM.addCommand("Shift UI", shiftCode, '')
except Exception as e:
    pass  # Skip the Error raise to avoid Nuke failing at opening if setting up the menu does not work on startup.
```

This code placed in a menu.py file executed by Nuke will create a Shift toolbar entry.

> <figure>
>       <img src="images/shift_toolbar.png" alt="UI">
>       <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift Toolbar.</figcaption>
> </figure>
> 
> and a Shift menu entry
> 
> <figure>
>       <img src="images/shift_menu.png" alt="UI">
>       <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu.</figcaption>
> </figure>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<figure>
      <img src="images/shift_toolbar.png" alt="Shift Toolbar">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Shift Toolbar integrated in Nuke.</figcaption>
</figure>

and a Shift menu entry

<figure>
      <img src="images/shift_menu.png" alt="Shift Menu">
      <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Shift Menu on Nuke's top bar.</figcaption>
</figure>

```

Author: I modified the captions a little. Let me know if it's ok

Reviewer: It's great, thanks!
